W 12985329 jenkins cli pipeline gr (#253)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/flex-conn-jenkins-cli.adoc

+
For more information, see xref:access-management::organization.adoc#find-your-organization-id[Find Your Organization ID].

** *Environment ID* for the environment where you want to run Flex Gateway
+
For more information, see xref:api-manager::latest-overview-concept.adoc#what-api-manager-looks-like[What API Manager Looks Like].

== Initial Configuration

Before you can create and deploy an API instance to your Flex Gateway, you must complete the following steps:

. <<define-useful-functions, Define Useful Functions>>.
. <<define-useful-parameters, Define Useful Parameters>>.
. <<install-anypoint-cli-4-x, Install Anypoint CLI 4.x>>
. <<register-and-run, Register and Run>>.

After you implement these Pipeline stages, you can customize your Pipeline by making API Manager CLI requests to manage APIs.

=== Define Useful Functions

To begin, define these useful functions in your Jenkinsfile:

[source,ssh]
----
def parseYamlFile(String file) {
   object = readYaml file: file
   return object
}
 
def getAPIInstanceID(String file) {
   return readFile(file: file).split(' ').last().replace('\n', '').trim()
}
----

=== Define Useful Parameters

> Since the commands in the Jenkins Pipeline reuses some parameters, it is helpful to define them at the beginning of your Jenkinsfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the commands in the Jenkins Pipeline reuse some parameters, it is helpful to define them at the beginning of your Jenkinsfile.
```

----
stage("Create API Instance") {
    steps {
        script {
            sh """
                sudo anypoint-cli-v4 api-mgr:api:manage ${params.EXCHANGE_ASSET_ID} ${params.EXCHANGE_ASSET_VERSION} \
                --client_id=${params.CONNECTED_APP_CLIENT_ID} --client_secret=${params.CONNECTED_APP_CLIENT_SECRET} \
                --isFlex --withProxy --deploymentType=hybrid --scheme=http --port=8082 \
                --uri=https://httpbin.org:443 --path=/httpbin > api-response
            """
        }
    }
}
----

NOTE: For example, this stage creates an API instance that listens on port `8082` and `/httpbin` path and proxies to `+https://httpbin.org/443+`.

== Apply a Basic Authentication Policy

After you create an API instance, you can apply Connected Mode policies to the instance:

. Collect the following information:
* Policy GAV
** `<policy-group-id>`: Policy group ID from Exchange, for example `68ef9520-24e9-4cf2-b2f5-620025690913``
** `<policy-asset-id>`: Policy asset ID from Exchange, for example `http-basic-authentication`
** `<policy-asset-version>`: Policy asset version from Exchange, for example `1.3.2`
* `"configurationData"`: Policy configuration data
+ 

> The configuration data fields are dependent on the policy. The `"username"` and `"password"` parameters are only an example. To find the configuration data for your policy, see xref:policies-included-directory.adoc[Included Policies Directory].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration data fields are dependent on the policy. The `"username"` and `"password"` parameters are only examples. To find the configuration data for your policy, see xref:policies-included-directory.adoc[Included Policies Directory].
```

> . After replacing the sample content, add the apply Basic Authentication policy stage to your Jenkins Pipeline:

Reviewer: Is the capitalization right for apply Basic Authentication policy stage?
